Add Distributed Blob Publishing to Fulu networking spec (#4183)
ethereum/consensus-specs: specs/fulu/p2p-interface.md

*Note:* In the `verify_data_column_sidecar_inclusion_proof(sidecar)` check, for all the sidecars of the same block, it verifies against the same set of `kzg_commitments` of the given beacon block. Client can choose to cache the result of the arguments tuple `(sidecar.kzg_commitments, sidecar.kzg_commitments_inclusion_proof, sidecar.signed_block_header)`.

###### Distributed Blob Publishing using blobs retreived from local execution layer client

> Honest nodes SHOULD query `engine_getBlobsV2` as soon as they receive a valid gossip block that contains data, convert the response to data columns, and import the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Honest nodes SHOULD query `engine_getBlobsV2` as soon as they receive a valid `BeaconBlock` or `DataColumnSidecar` from gossip. If ALL blobs matching `kzg_commitments` are retrieved, they should convert the response to data columns, and import the result.
```

Reviewer 2: Also pending changes from https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/630, the idea is to keep using `engine_getBlobsV1` now

> Similar to the Deneb specification, recent blobs MAY be retrieved by querying the Execution Layer via `engine_getBlobsV2`. Clients will be able to convert the EL blob response into data columns to satisfy block availability requirements.

Reviewer 3: Honest nodes SHOULD query `engine_getBlobsV2` as soon as they receive a valid gossip block that contains data, convert the response to data columns, and import the result.

> Similar to the Deneb specification, recent blobs MAY be retrieved by querying the Execution Layer via `engine_getBlobsV2`. Clients will be able to convert the EL blob response into data columns to satisfy block availability requirements.

Reviewer: I would also add something indicating that it is only possible to convert the received blobs into data columns if all blobs are retrieved, e.g. "if ALL blobs matching `beacon_block.body.kzg_commitments` are retrieved, convert the response to data columns, and import the result."

Author: Thanks, committed your suggestions.

> Honest nodes SHOULD query `engine_getBlobsV2` as soon as they receive a valid `beacon_block` or `data_column_sidecar` from gossip. If ALL blobs matching `kzg_commitments` are retrieved, they should convert the response to data columns, and import the result.

Reviewer 4: I've concerns on requiring it from all. If your custody requirement is just 4, it sounds like too much to follow all these rules and spend computation power. I'd bound it to supernodes only.

Reviewer 4: Also home staker on ADSL wouldn't be happy to try to publish all DataColumns with 48, 64 etc blobs

Author: Full nodes won't actually send all data columns - they only send data columns on topics they're subscribed to. **This is the same behaviour as if you receive a data column via gossip** - you'd spend the bandwidth to propagate it to mesh peers.

If the node ever add the columns to the "gossip seen cache" without publishing / forwarding the column, it would stop propagation of the columns to the rest of the network.

re 1st point about computing columns - proofs will no longer be computed in the CL, so this would be a cheap operation, and potentially makes the block available sooner than waiting for columns to arrive from gossip.

*Note:* In the `verify_data_column_sidecar_inclusion_proof(sidecar)` check, for all the sidecars of the same block, it verifies against the same set of `kzg_commitments` of the given beacon block. Client can choose to cache the result of the arguments tuple `(sidecar.kzg_commitments, sidecar.kzg_commitments_inclusion_proof, sidecar.signed_block_header)`.

###### Distributed Blob Publishing using blobs retrieved from local execution layer client

Honest nodes SHOULD query `engine_getBlobsV2` as soon as they receive a valid `beacon_block` or `data_column_sidecar` from gossip. If ALL blobs matching `kzg_commitments` are retrieved, they should convert the response to data columns, and import the result.

Implementers are encouraged to leverage this method to increase the likelihood of incorporating and attesting to the last block when its proposer is not able to publish data columns on time.

> When clients use the local execution layer to retrieve blob and compute data columns, they MUST behave as if the imported `data_column_sidecar` had been received via gossip. Note that this only applies to the data columns gossip topics they are subscribed to - specifically, the node’s assigned custody columns. In particular, clients MUST:

Reviewer 5: @jimmygchen i would like clarify on this statement. when full node participate in distributed blob publishing, does the node publish only its custody columns, or plus some extra sampling columns? since full node also subscribe those extra sampling columns subnets, not only custody subnets

Reviewer 6: Hey @hangleang, I can try to help with this. The full node would only publish the data column sidecars to the subnets for which it is custodying, which is determined by [`get_custody_groups `](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/dev/specs/fulu/das-core.md#get_custody_groups).

Author: Thanks @jtraglia - I realise what I wrote there isn't right for full nodes without validators, the following sentence should be removed / replaced:
> specifically, the node’s assigned custody columns.

Because under subnet sampling, a full node without validators would subscribe to 8 column topics but only custody 4 columns - and distributed publishing should apply to all subscribed column topics to make sure columns are propagated accordingly.

Reviewer 6: Oh I see. Then I misunderstood it too 😅 good question @hangleang!

Author: Updated in https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4183/commits/43892f006942b44c15559eec56c00832eb8436a1, hope this makes sense:

https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/43892f006942b44c15559eec56c00832eb8436a1/specs/fulu/p2p-interface.md#L214-L217
